update ROLES.md to more accurately reflect reality (#1343)
knative/community: ROLES.md

  </tr>
</table>

Please note that repos in the knative-sandbox GitHub org are a reflection of
the WG leads. These leads are free to use their judgement to set the bar for
what is required to become an approver and/or lead for knative-sandbox repos
they are responsible for.

## Contributor

This role describes people who have just started contributing, or who
contribute occasionally but don't participate in project governance or
have defined responsibilities.

A Contributor contributes directly to the project and adds value to it.
Contributions need not be code. People at the Contributor level may be new
contributors, or they may only contribute occasionally.
### Requirements

Contributors should be familiar with the project and its processes, and should
contribute to the project in one or more of the following ways.

- Report and sometimes resolve issues
- Occasionally submit PRs
- Contribute to the documentation
- Show up at meetings
- Submit feedback on issues and PRs
- Test releases and patches and submit reviews
- Run or helps run events
- Promote the project in public

## Member

A Member is an established Contributor who regularly participates in the

> project. Members have privileges in both project repositories and elections,

Reviewer: I thought that elections were specifically limited to people who had 50 contributions in the last year, not to a "member level" (though it would be odd to have 50 contributions and not be an org member).

Author: I wondered about this. The wording comes from the CNCF template referenced in the PR description. I think being a Member should allow a contributor to participate in elections, and we should eliminate the 50 contribution requirement. "Contributions" are hard to quantify outside of actual GitHub activity, and we define "contributions" as including other activities, such as @nainaz being a presence at KubeCon and representing the project in a large public setting. How many "contributions" does that account for? In my opinion, being a Member should be enough.

Reviewer: Our current elections rules also allow individuals to request an exception if they have non-GitHub contributions.  Note that contributions include issue and PR comments in addition to commits.

Author: Done: https://github.com/knative/community/issues/1350

pre-submit tests are automatically run for their PRs. Members are expected to
remain active contributors to the community.

All members are encouraged to help with code reviews, although each PR
must be reviewed and approved by an official [Approver](#approver).

When reviewing, members should focus on code quality and correctness, including
testing and factoring. Members might also review for more holistic issues, but
this is not a requirement.

### Requirements

- Member of the Knative github org. Create a PR adding yourself as a Member to
[knative.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative.yaml) and/or to
[knative-sandbox.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative-sandbox.yaml), and as a `reviewer`
on the repositories to which you will be contributing. After the PR is
merged you will receive an invite that you must accept to become a Member
of these GitHub organizations.

- Has made multiple contributions to the project or community. Contributions
  might include, but are not limited to:

  - Authoring and reviewing PRs on GitHub

>   - Submitting and commenting on issues on GitHub

Reviewer: We should explicitly include triaging and resolving issues here as a contribution category.

  - Contributing to working group or community discussions

- Subscribed to
  [knative-dev@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev)

- Actively contributing to 1 or more areas

> - Nominated by two Knative Members, at least one of whom does not work for the same employer

Reviewer: What's the motivation behind adding this requirement?  Is this to prevent ballot stuffing?  If so, we might want to put in the 50 contributions in the last year bar, rather than the nomination bar.

(In particular, we've been quite free with org member privileges in the past, and if we want to set this new bar, we may need to more actively clean up our org membership.)

Reviewer: In fact, I'd be in favor of keeping the bar for org membership low enough that wanting it is enough, unless someone is clearly not acting in the best interests of the project.  But I'd be interested in seeing what experience @geekygirldawn and @jberkus have with setting thresholds on org membership.

Author: This was also added based on the CNCF template. I don't have strong feelings about it either way. I think at least one nomination might be a good idea however, as this would be a tangible thing that a Working Group Lead, Member, or Approver could do to help promote the community. It could, in fact, be a Responsibility for Members and Approvers as a recognized contribution to the project.

Reviewer 2: I'm also a fan of keeping the bar to org membership low. Being nominated by 2 people probably comes from K8s, and Knative is a smaller project, so a lower bar would be fine. You could probably just remove the nomination requirement, and rely on the person merging the PR to make sure that it's not spam / malicious.

- Member of the Knative github org
  - Create a PR adding yourself as a Member to
[knative.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative.yaml) and/or to
[knative-sandbox.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative-sandbox.yaml)
  - After the PR is merged you will receive an invite that you must accept to become a Member
  - If you would like to work towards becoming an Approver, open a second PR and add yourself as a `reviewer` on the repositories to which you will be contributing.

- Has made multiple contributions to the project or community. Contributions
  might include, but are not limited to:

  - Authoring and reviewing PRs on GitHub
  - Submitting and commenting on issues on GitHub
  - Triaging and resolving issues on GitHub
  - Contributing to working group or community discussions

- Subscribed to
  [knative-dev@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev)

- Actively contributing to 1 or more areas

- Nominated by two Knative Members, at least one of whom does not work for the same employer

### Responsibilities and privileges

- Responsive to issues and PRs assigned to them

- Active owner of code they have contributed (unless ownership is explicitly
  transferred)

>   - Code is well tested

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Contributions are well tested
```

Making this less code specific. For example, website contributions could be content, but tests for things like the website framework still need to be run and pass.

  - Tests consistently pass

>   - Addresses bugs or issues discovered after code is accepted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Addresses bugs or issues discovered after a contribution
```

> Members who frequently contribute code should proactively perform code
> reviews and may work towards becoming an Approver for the area that they
> are active in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Members who frequently contribute should proactively perform
reviews and may work towards becoming an Approver for the area that they
are active in.
```

> ## Approver

Reviewer 2: Again, you may have approvers in areas like the community repo who aren't writing code. For example, I can approve PRs in some election folders even though those contributions are markdown / yaml files and not code. I'll make suggestions throughout this section along these lines.

The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be an
approver in an OWNERS file:

- Add yourself as a `writer` for the repositories you are responsible for
  in [knative.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative.yaml) and/or
  [knative-sandbox.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative-sandbox.yaml). After
  this you should be an `approver` in the OWNERS file.

> - Reviewer of the codebase for at least 3 months

Reviewer: Do we want / need these specific time-based thresholds, or are contribution thresholds sufficient?

Author: Contribution thresholds are nice, but as the project matures and the rate of change slows, would it make sense to consider active involvement over a period of time. I am in favor of removing numeric contribution thresholds altogether, and feel that active and committed involvement in the project over time might be a better measure for these hurdles.

Author: This is carried over from the current document: https://github.com/knative/community/blob/main/ROLES.md#requirements-1

Reviewer: The historical context here is that these were copied from Istio as a bulwark against the project membership and control changing too rapidly and against the desires of the originating companies.  I don't think we have the same concerns in the CNCF.

Reviewer 2: I tend to prefer to leave the timing in because it serves as a guideline for people and reminds us to think about promoting people who have been involved for this amount of time. It also serves as a guideline for members to think about when they should try to move to the next level. However, I am going to propose changing it to "about 3 months" to give you some flexibility.

> - Should have reviewed or contributed to substantial PRs to the codebase

Reviewer: Question: do we want to allow people to become "Approver" without having done substantial PR reviews?  I can see both sides to this issue, and would love to hear others' opinions.

Author: I think the troublesome word here is "substantial". It's kind of squishy and sounds intimidating. Maybe just make this "several or important" - something that allows for wiggle room and feels less "gatekeeping".

- Nominated by a Working Group Lead with no objections from other leads

### Responsibilities and privileges

The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be an
approver in an OWNERS file:

> - Approver status may be a precondition to accepting large code contributions

Reviewer: Can we strike this?  It's a "may", so there's no guarantee of enforcement, and I'd rather have that discussion with a particular code contribution in hand to consider.

> - Approver status may be a precondition to accepting large code contributions

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following apply to the part of the repository for which one would be an
```

approver in an OWNERS file:

- Add yourself as a `writer` for the repositories you are responsible for
  in [knative.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative.yaml) and/or
  [knative-sandbox.yaml](../main/peribolos/knative-sandbox.yaml). After
  this you should be an `approver` in the OWNERS file.

> - Reviewer of the codebase for at least 3 months

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reviewer of other people's contributions for about 3 months
```

> - Should have reviewed or contributed to substantial PRs to the codebase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Should have reviewed or contributed to non-trivial PRs
```

Changed this to non-trivial, which seems to be more in the spirit of what we need.

- Nominated by a Working Group Lead with no objections from other leads

### Responsibilities and privileges

> The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following apply to the part of the repository for which one would be an
```

approver in an OWNERS file:

> - Demonstrate sound technical judgment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Demonstrate sound judgment
```

> * Responsible for project quality control via [code reviews](./REVIEWING.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Responsible for project quality control via [reviews](./REVIEWING.md)
```

  - Focus on holistic acceptance of contribution such as dependencies with other
    features, backward / forward compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.

* Expected to be responsive to review requests as per
  [community expectations](./REVIEWING.md)

* Mentor new contributors and project members

> * Approve code contributions for acceptance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Approve contributions for acceptance
```

[rotation](https://github.com/knative/pkg/blob/main/RELEASE-LEADS.md) to
shepherd Knative releases.

## Working Group Lead

> Working group technical leads, or just ‘tech leads’, are approvers of an entire

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working group leads are approvers of an entire
```

It looks like we're dropping the distinction between "execution leads" (doing an executive role of organizing work) and "technical leads" (primarily focused on code).  That seems reasonable, given the current size/state of the project.

Author: The distinction seems aspirational and not practical, imo.

[rotation](https://github.com/knative/pkg/blob/main/RELEASE-LEADS.md) to
shepherd Knative releases.

## Working Group Lead

Working group leads are approvers of an entire
area that have demonstrated good judgement and responsibility. Tech leads accept
design proposals and approve design decisions for their area of ownership, and
are responsible for the overall technical health of their functional area.

### Requirements

For existing working groups:

- Recognized as having expertise in the group’s subject matter

> - Approver for a relevant part of the codebase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Approver for a relevant part of the repository for about 3 months
```

> - Should have reviewed or contributed to substantial PRs to the codebase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Should have reviewed or contributed to non-trivial PRs
```

### Requirements

For existing working groups:

- Recognized as having expertise in the group’s subject matter

> - Approver for a relevant part of the codebase for at least 3 months

Reviewer: Again, -1 on specific cooling off periods here.

Author: ```suggestion
- Approver for a relevant part of the codebase
```
Just remove the timeframe?

Reviewer: LGTM!

> - Member for at least 6 months

Reviewer: Also strike this.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Should have reviewed or contributed to substantial PRs to the codebase

- Should be an `approver` in the OWNERS file

- Sponsored by the Technical Oversight Committee

> - Participant in the working group for at least 3 months, for example as a

Reviewer: Again, I'd remove the time-frame, but "recognized in the working group as an active participant" seems reasonable.

> - Participant in the working group for at least 3 months, for example as a
>   reviewer or approver

Author: ```suggestion
- Recognized in the project as an active participant
```

- Recognized as having expertise in the group’s subject matter

Additional requirements for leads of a new working group:

> - Originally authored or contributed major functionality to the group's area

Reviewer: Do we need this, or can we simply line this up with the existing if we get rid of the time-in-role requirements above?

Author: Carried over from the current doc. Happy to strike.

> - Originally authored or contributed major functionality to the group's area

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - Report. Report current status to the TOC meeting every 6 weeks.

- Expected to work to holistically maintain the health of the project through:

  - Reviewing PRs

  - Fixing bugs

  - Identifying needed enhancements / areas for improvement / etc.

>   - Execute pay-down of technical debt

Reviewer: I'd probably say "manage" -- in some cases, technical debt might not be the largest issue facing a working group, so I'd be cautious about making it a bright-line requirement.

Author: This was carried over from the original document and I considered removing it but didn't - happy to strike it.

>   - Execute pay-down of technical debt

Author: ```suggestion
  - Be aware of and work to reduce technical debt where it may exist
```

- Design/proposal approval authority over the area / component, though
  escalation to the technical oversight committee is possible

- Holistic responsibility for their working group's [feature
  tracks](./mechanics/FEATURE-TRACKS.md): review, tracking, health, and execution.

- Perform issue triage on GitHub

- Apply/remove/create/delete GitHub labels and milestones

- Write access to repo (assign issues/PRs, add/remove labels and milestones,
  edit issues and PRs, edit wiki, create/delete labels and milestones)

> - Capable of directly applying `lgtm` and `approve` labels for any PR

Reviewer: I'd drop this -- I don't think we've needed it in quite a while, and it didn't always work right anyway.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - Capable of directly applying `lgtm` and `approve` labels for any PR

Author: ```suggestion
- Capable of directly applying `lgtm` and `approve` labels for any PR
```
